just a little bit of what
we're going to cover today.
We're going to build on the overview
and the using Cocoa session that
you just saw and just dig a little
bit deeper for these issues.
Drag and drop, printing, services,
things that Ali mentioned before.
So I'm not going to waste any more time.
Please help me bring to the
stage Cocoa Frameworks Engineer,
Mark Piccirelli.
The first thing we're going to
talk about is drag and drop.
It's an important part of so
many programs' user interfaces
because Cocoa has good,
straightforward support for it.
We'll talk about how you register
drag targets in your application,
how you provide drag feedback
when the user drags things
over your program's windows,
how you handle drops when the
user actually drops something,
how you initiate drag and drop
operations in response to user
events in one of your programs' use.
And for those of you who have been
programming after for a while,
I'll briefly mention some of the new
drag and drop features in Mac OS X.
So before the user can drag
anything onto your program,
you have to register the
program's drop targets.
Now you can register
windows as drop targets,
but more typically you register specific
views in the windows of your program.
To do this, you call NSView's register
for drag types method,
passing it an array of
pasteboard data type names,
indicating exactly what types the user
can drop onto your program's views.
For example, if you subclass NSView,
you should call register for drag
types in the views initializer method.
If you do this,
it's also a good idea to call unregister
drag types in the views dialog method.
Now views that you register to be
drop targets must implement methods
of the NSDraggingDestination protocol.
The first one of these methods you have
to worry about is dragging entered.
When the user drags something
into one of your program's views,
Cocoa will send the view a
dragging entered message.
This is your opportunity
to draw visual feedback,
something like an insertion pointer
if the view is displaying text.
And your view should also
determine what sort of drag
operation this is going to be.
Is copying being done?
Is moving being done?
Or if it's applicable,
is nothing being done because
it's not allowed right now?
The information that the view needs
to determine these kind of things is
available in an NSDraggingInfo object,
an object that implements the methods
of the NSDraggingInfo protocol.
Every one of the methods in the
NSDraggingDestination protocol is past
an instance of one of these objects.
So I'll briefly talk about this
other protocol before bouncing
back to NSDraggingDestination.
So as I mentioned,
an NSDRAGON info object is passed to each
of your NSDRAGON destination methods.
Now remember what I mentioned
before about how your drop target
has to determine exactly what
sort of drop operation this is.
Part of the information it needs to
figure that out is based on what drag
operations the dragging source supports.
And your drop target can find that
out by consulting the dragging
source operation mask method
of the NSDRAGON info protocol.
It also might need access to the
data that's actually being dragged,
and it can get access to that using
the dragging pasteboard method.
Back to the methods of the
NSDragging destination protocol,
which again, each one of them is passed
in NSDraggingInfoObject.
DraggingUpdated, unlike DraggingEntered,
which is called just once when the user
drags something onto one of your views,
is called over and over again as the
user drags things around over your view.
You should be redrawing the
visual feedback you're providing,
if any.
And if you do this, be efficient,
because this method is called over
and over again as the mouse moves.
So any flickering or delays
will be very noticeable.
One thing you don't have to worry about,
one nice thing that
Cocoa provides for you,
is auto-scrolling.
If you've worked in other systems,
you know it's a lot of work to deal
with the issue of the user dragging
something off the bottom of the view.
You have to move the scroll bars around.
It's a lot of work sometimes.
In Cocoa, it's not a lot of work.
If your view is a sub-view
and a scroll view,
NSScrollView will take
care of all this for you.
And the other method that's
involved in providing drag
feedback is dragging exited.
If the user drags something
away from your view,
without actually dropping it,
your dragging exited
method will be invoked.
This is your opportunity to clear the
visual feedback that you've been drawing.
Now if the user actually
does drop something,
your drop target will be
sent a sequence of methods,
prepare for drag operation,
perform drag operation,
and conclude drag operation.
If everything goes well,
all three of them will be sent.
So you're wondering,
why are there three of them?
Why isn't it just one method?
Well, you really should do all the main
stuff and perform drag operation,
but it's necessary to split a few
things off from the other things.
For example,
in the case of a drag and drop
operation that implies moving,
the source has to do things too.
Once the dragging destination has
copied the drag data into its stuff,
the dragging source has to delete it.
And the way we make sure that
all this occurs safely is
breaking this up like this.
So perform drag operation,
your dragging destination is called,
then the dragging source is told
that it can delete any information
that was dragged if it needs to.
And then your dragging destination's
conclude drag operation method is called.
The other half of providing
drag and drop support in your
Cocoa application is initiating drag
and drops in response to user events,
when they pick something
up in one of your views.
Well, historically,
the case of the user picking up file
icons or something like that has been
common enough that we provide a specific
method for it that you can see there.
For everything else,
NSView has a convenience function,
drag image at offset event
pasteboard source slide back.
And I won't get into all those arguments.
There's a bunch of them.
They're all very well documented, too.
But I will, too,
bring up two things that are important.
We get a lot of questions about,
from developers,
who need to take a snapshot of a
piece of their view to provide us
that image that gets dragged around.
I can't give you the entire
answer because it's pretty long,
but the hardest to guess part of
it is to call NSBitmapImageRep in
it with focusDirect.
So that's your hint
about how to get that.
Another thing you can do... Just as there
is an NSDraggingDestination protocol,
Cocoa has an NSDraggingSource protocol.
I won't get into it in too much
detail here because it's much less
common to have to customize the
operation of the dragging source,
but it's there.
So, and if you've been working
with AppKit for a long time,
say pre-Mac OS 10.0,
you should be aware that
there are two new operations,
NSDragOperationMove and
NSDragOperationDelete.
That list that showed up on a
few slides ago included these.
You might have been wondering
where they came from.
They provide a little bit
richer semantics than just plain
old NSDragOperationGeneric,
which was used before.
And also, we now have drag and drop
in our text subsystem,
so our text subsystem's classes have a
few new methods that you can override,
and also the text subsystem classes'
delegate methods have a few additions,
too.
So the next thing I'll go into is
NS Table View because it's a good
example of one of the sophisticated
controls that Cocoa provides.
You've seen them all over.
They display data in a table and
allow the user to edit values if
you want to let them do that and
resize and rearrange columns.
and real quick,
I'll go into what you have
to do to provide the data
that the table view displays.
Some of the things you can do
to handle the user events that
can occur in a table view.
And if you really need to
do serious customization,
I'll introduce the concept
of table view cells.
So, providing table view data,
another protocol,
another thing that defines
a set of methods that you
can implement if need be.
The one for NS table data source,
and NS table data source is
what an NS table view consults
to get the data it displays,
includes two methods that you'll
almost certainly have to implement,
number of rows in table view,
and table view object
for table column row.
Now, you can pretty much guess what the
first one is supposed to return.
The second one can return pretty much
any object within the limitations
of what the table view can handle.
A standard NS table view can handle
strings and numbers with no trouble.
and if you're letting the user edit
the data that shows up in a table view,
you can implement table view set
object value for table column row,
which is pretty easy too.
So handling table view events.
Just as table view-- well,
NS table view is unique
in that it provides-- it
depends on these data sources.
It is very common among Cocoa classes,
however, to depend on delegates.
And NS table view defines
a set of delegate methods,
much like many other Cocoa classes do.
I'll single one out because it's a good
example of Cocoa providing flexibility
without too much complexability.
And that's table view will
display cell for table column row.
and that is sent to your table views
delegate right before each time a
table view is about to display a cell.
And that's your option,
that's your opportunity to do simple
things like setting up fonts or colors
for drawing and things like that.
Affecting the display of the
cell without having to do
anything too clever or difficult.
And then the table view delegate
methods include a bunch of
other things for controlling
selection and editing policies.
Whether or not you're letting
the user select many different
rows at one time or just one.
Whether or not you're letting
the user edit things or not.
So stuff like that.
And there's also methods that provide,
one of the ways that your table view
delegate can find out about user
events that occur in a table view.
The next step of table view
customization is to provide your
own kind of cells to the table view.
So as I mentioned on an earlier slide,
by default,
NS Table Views can display numbers
and strings without any trouble.
And that's because they use
instances of one of our classes
called NS Text Field Cells.
Well, you can provide other
cells if you need to.
And as you can see on the slide,
there's more than one way to do it.
You can do it by overriding or
by setting things up after the
table view has been instantiated.
So if you do this,
if you're willing to provide
your own kind of cells,
you can take total control
of all the displaying,
of custom drawing, highlighting,
and you can even have your
table view display objects
other than numbers and strings,
whatever you need.
So one thing you don't need to
provide new cells for is simple
things like determining policy.
If you just want to affect the
editability of an NS TableView cells,
well, the delegate can do that.
You don't have to, you know,
provide new cells for that.
and no discussion of NS Table View would
be complete without mentioning
its most well-known subclass,
NS Outline View,
which displays pretty much the same
stuff but can display hierarchical data.
I'm sure you've all seen these
around in programs like Mail and
Project Builder and other places.
and others.
So very quickly,
NSOutlineView is not surprisingly
a subclass of NSTableView.
It follows a lot of the same patterns.
The biggest difference is that
instead of getting its data
from an NSTable data source,
it depends on an NSOutlineView data
source for its data.
An NSOutlineView data source,
the interface that's declared by it is
very similar to NSTable data sources
with an important difference because the
data can be hierarchically organized.
It provides a few other methods
for determining whether or not an
item has child items and if so,
how many there are.
Another important distinction is
the fact that NS Table View or
NS Table Data Source identifies
rows with a simple integer.
And why not?
That's the simplest way to do it.
That's really not an option with
outline views because row indices,
things like that,
are changing while the user is
playing with the little disclosure
triangles and things like that.
So all the items that are displayed in
an outline view and passed across the
NS Outline View Data Source protocol
are identified by object references.
Next topic I want to talk
to you about is printing.
I want you to know what
you get for free in Cocoa.
It's a bunch.
I also want you to know the limits
of what you get for free because some
people have trouble finding them.
And I also want you to know that
when you go past those limits,
even very advanced printing
in Cocoa is still pretty easy.
So real quick, I'll go through what
views do automatically,
what sort of printing they support
without much effort at all on your part.
I'll talk about what you have to do if
you want to take control of the page
setup that's involved in printing.
I'll introduce the concept of print
operations and quickly summarize the
things we do as far as pagination goes.
Simple printing of views.
Views can print themselves
without any trouble at all.
Your review has a print method.
For example, if you have a file menu
with a print item in it,
and it's hooked up to the print action,
and it's sending the print
action down the responder chain,
the first view on the responder chain
will print itself when it sees that.
So it'll take care of putting up the
print dialog and things like that.
For its print setting,
it will use a shared NS Print Info.
I'll take more on
NS Print Info in a second.
Before I go on to more
advanced customization,
let me just point out really quick,
if the only difference in your view,
the only customization you're considering
is that you might want to do things
a little differently on the screen
from what you see on the printer,
well, there's a very easy way to find
out which of you is drawing
to the printer or the screen,
and that's the current context
drawing to screen method.
So page setup.
Very simple applications can just depend
on what Cocoa already has built into it.
But if you're doing a more
full-featured application,
you're going to have
to know a few classes.
The first one of which is NS Print Info,
which encapsulates all the
parameters of a print job.
It includes, among other things,
all the things that the user
can set up in a print panel,
or a print dialog rather,
like page size and
orientation and scaling.
The Cocoa class that actually
presents the print dialog or sheet,
whichever, is called NS Page Layout.
And you can see there are the two
methods that you use to do that.
If your application is document based,
if you're using NS Document,
you don't really have to
worry about too much of this.
I try and start going to
what you don't get for free,
but I immediately run into
what you do get for free again.
NS Document will take
care of all this for you.
So if it's a document based app,
you're nearly off the hook.
Print operations.
When you start taking
control of printing,
you know,
not just letting a view print itself,
you have to learn this class.
NS print operation.
An NS print operation is,
as the name implies,
what actually does printing.
So when you create it,
you specify an NS print info that
contains the parameters of printing
and the view that's to be printed,
and eventually you'll run it.
Now which view should be printed?
Well you have a couple of options.
Text edit, for example,
and I do mean for example.
You have the source code
so you can check this out.
Print's one of the views
that's already on the screen.
The one that you see in the window
is just the same view that gets
printed by the print operation.
Sketch, on the other hand,
another sample program,
creates a view just for printing
and this view only lives for
the lifetime of the print job.
So there's advantages and
disadvantages to both ways.
I suggest you check out the source
code for those two and there's
plenty of pointers in there.
So an NS document.
NS document can't do everything for you.
So if you're providing printing
in a document-based application,
it does provide the obvious
place for you to do the printing.
It's in the print showing
print panel method,
which you should override.
And if you do that,
and you create a print
operation in there,
and you take the NS print info that the
NS document was maintaining for you,
keeping around, and you set up your view,
when you actually run the operation,
you should run it using the run
modal print operation delegate did
run selector context info method.
method.
and that will take care of presenting
the sheet because of course we always
prefer sheets when it's reasonable.
It will take care of presenting the
sheet on the proper document window.
So, and one more thing you should
know about printing is pagination.
We have very flexible pagination.
For simple cases,
even for cases that aren't so simple,
you can set margins in the
NS Print Info and then set a few
pagination modes that we support
on a horizontal and vertical basis.
Fit pagination, for instance,
will scale a view to fit within one page.
Clip pagination will
just clip it right there.
And automatic pagination will
split up the view into pieces.
And put them on a range of pages.
For more complex situations,
when you have to take over,
you can override the nose page
range method of the view that's
being printed and return yes.
You'll also have to return the
range of pages that's being printed.
And then you should also
override NS view rect for page.
And Cocoa's printing system
will call that repeatedly,
finding out what piece of the view
should be drawn for each page.
And during the printing process,
it will tell the view to draw that piece.
on that page.
One last thing I want to
mention is file wrappers.
NS file wrapper, a class of ours.
What is it?
It holds the contents and attributes
of a file or a directory's
worth of files in memory.
Why is this worth mentioning?
Well, because it's such an easy way
to manage file attachments.
When you drag a file into text
edit or into a mail message,
for instance, and the icon appears,
that's NS file wrapper
managing all that for you,
making the icon available,
taking care of things like that.
It's also an easy way
to read file packages.
If you're not familiar with the
concept of file packages yet,
a file package is a directory on a
Mac OS X system that looks just like
a document to the user in the finder.
So it's a convenient way
to get a few things done,
and file wrappers
support them very nicely.
It does this because a file wrapper
can actually wrap a directory also.
And when it does that,
you end up with a hierarchy of
these NS file wrapper objects.
And you get to the sub file
wrappers using directory entries,
or dictionary entries,
as is common in Cocoa.
And the operations on a
file wrapper are recursive,
so if you're doing something
like copying an NS file wrapper,
all the sub file wrappers
inside will be copied also.
So what other kind of things can
you do with the file wrapper?
As you might guess,
you might want to get the
data that corresponds to the
file that's being wrapped.
And you do that,
and of course it provides
a method for that,
and it returns one of our
NSData objects for that.
You can get and set the file
attributes on a file wrapper,
and get the icon also for displaying in
places like text edit or a mail message,
wherever you're doing a file
attachment or something like that.
One neat feature is that if a
file wrapper has been instantiated
by just copying the contents of
something off of disk into memory,
file wrapper will keep track of that.
And if you need to,
you can ask the file wrapper to check
to see if the copy on disk has changed.
And if so, you can ask it to update
to that copy on disk also.
And the last good thing you can do with
file wrappers is you can serialize,
you can flatten them for putting
places like the pasteboard.
At this point, please welcome to the
stage Doug Davidson so he
can talk about services.
Thanks, Mark.
Now, we had a tantalizing glimpse of
services in the last session,
so I'm here to tell you
something more about them.
And to do that,
I want to start by describing
services by comparison with
something that's not a service,
and that is the bold menu
item in an application.
Now,
when the user picks the bold menu item,
you can think of what is happening as,
in effect,
the current selection is being copied,
transformed so it is bold,
and then pasted back in place.
Now, that's a very simple operation.
It's built into every application.
But suppose you have some
custom operation that your
application knows how to perform,
and you think it's so great
that you want to provide it
not only in your application,
but in your application as well.
And you want to make sure that you're not
only providing it in your application,
but you're also providing it
in your application as well.
So, you can think of what's
happening in your application.
Now,
when the user picks the bold menu item,
you can think of what is happening as,
in effect,
the current selection is being copied,
transforms so it is bold,
and then paste it back in place.
Now, that's a very simple operation,
but in every other application as well.
Now, if you want to do that,
you can use a service.
And the way it works is that
when that service is requested,
the current selection is copied,
put on a special pasteboard,
shipped off to your application.
Your application will be launched
if it's not already running.
And you perform your
special operation on it,
put the result back on the pasteboard,
get shipped back to the
originating application,
and then that's pasted back in.
Now, not every service has to
follow this exact pattern.
For example, the magic typer of the last
session didn't take any data,
it just returned some
data on the pasteboard.
Or there can be services that just
take data and don't return anything.
And the thing that the
service takes or returns,
it doesn't have to be text,
it can be any sort of thing
that can be copied and pasted.
So what does an application have
to do to support use of services?
Well, this is Cocoa.
The answer is absolutely nothing.
The use of services is automatic.
Your standard Cocoa menu, main menu,
will have a services menu in it.
The app kit will automatically
populate it with entries for all the
services available on the system.
The user just picks it and the
rest happens automatically.
There are a couple of
things you might want to do.
It is possible to invoke services
programmatically if you want to.
Also, if you have a custom view,
the things you need to do to support the
use of services on it are essentially
the same sort of things that you
need to do to support copy and paste.
You need to be able to
take the current selection,
put it on the pasteboard,
or take something from the pasteboard
and put it in the current selection.
Also,
if you have a custom pasteboard type,
then you have to register that
so that the App Kit can know
to check for any services that
might take or return that type.
So the interesting question is,
what does your application have to
do in order to provide a service?
Now, in order to provide a service,
there are three things you have to do.
First one is to implement
one single method.
It looks something like this.
And you'll be handed a pasteboard,
optionally some extra data.
You take what comes in on the pasteboard,
transform it, put it back,
and send it back.
And if there's an error,
you can return an error string.
There are some examples.
For example, there's a simple service
example on your disk.
TextEdit also provides a service.
Here is just the basic skeleton
of what that service-providing
method might look like.
take the string off the pasteboard,
one line to perform your operation,
and then two more lines to say what type
you're putting back on the pasteboard
and put the value back on the pasteboard.
That's all.
That's point number one.
So the second thing you need to do is
that when your application is launched,
you need to register the object
that implements this method as the
service provider for your application.
There's one service
provider per application.
That's point number two.
And point number three is that
you need to add an entry to the
Info.plist in your application bundle.
And what that does is to describe the
service or possibly multiple services
that your application provides,
saying what the name is,
what types it will take,
what types it will return, menu items,
and possibly keyboard equivalents.
Thank you.
Okay.
Now next,
I'd like to discuss a few topics
down at the foundation level.
First of all, the runloop.
Cocoa applications are
fundamentally event-driven.
That is, events come in, they're handled,
and we go back and wait for
the next event to come in.
Now, the underlying machinery that
supports this is the runloop,
NSRunloop, the foundation.
And we call it a runloop because we
say that it runs and that it loops.
But mainly what a
runloop does is it waits.
It waits for something
interesting to happen.
Then it tells you about it.
You handle it.
It goes back and it waits again.
And the things it waits for can be
any of a wide variety of things.
It might be the arrival
of a Mach message.
of a network packet.
It might just be the arrival
of some specific time.
But what the runloop can do is to
wait for all of these things to
gather efficiently without pulling,
without using any processor resources.
And that turns out to be
a very powerful thing.
and others.
Now,
there's just one runloop per thread that
does all the waiting for that thread.
Typically in an AppKit-based application,
the AppKit will run the runloop
for you in the main thread.
You wouldn't have to do that,
but under other circumstances,
you may wish to run the runloop
for your thread by yourself.
Now, runloops can have modes.
It may be that you don't want
to wait for every possible thing
every time you run the runloop.
For example, you might not want to have a
certain timer fire while you are,
let us say, tracking mouse moves.
So it is possible to run a runloop in
any -- in a number of different modes.
And when you add a source to the runloop,
you register it for a single
mode or a set of modes.
And only those runloops that are
registered for the particular mode
that is running are actually active.
The default runloop that you would
use most of the time and that
probably will be used most of the
time when the runloop is running,
the AppKit has a couple
of others that you'll see.
For example,
one that's used when a modal panel is up
and another that's used typically when
it's tracking mouse moves in a widget.
And you could register for all of
these together as the common modes.
Now, runloop by itself is not
terribly interesting.
What's interesting is
what you can do with it.
That is, the things you can wait for.
And one of the things I said
you could wait for was the
arrival of a certain time.
To do that, you use an NS timer.
An NS timer can wait for a single
time or a repeating sequence of times.
For example,
that silly worm in the last session
was animated using a timer that waited
for a repeating sequence of times.
And the way this works is that
when this timer is added to a
runloop in a particular mode,
if the runloop is running in that mode,
it checks to see if the time for
that timer to fire has arrived.
And if it has, then it tells you.
That is,
an object of your choice will be sent a
method of your choice when that occurs.
and of course if you have a one
shot timer it's automatically
invalidated after it has fired.
If you have a repeating timer then you
would have to invalidate it yourself
when you no longer want it to be used.
Among the other things
you could wait for,
I said, were Mach messages,
network packets, things like that.
If you really want to wait for raw
Mach messages or raw network packets,
you can do that at the core
foundation level with some core
foundation runloop sources.
And I'll probably mention that tomorrow
in the core foundation session.
At the foundation level,
we have a somewhat more
abstracted object based on those,
and that is NSPort.
And what NSPort allows you to do is to
send what's called an NSPort message
from one Cocoa process to another.
And the contents of a port
message is mainly just an NSData,
a bag of bytes.
It can also optionally include
some references to ports
that can be sent across.
And an NSPort message is sent.
are all presented.
I'm going to show you a little bit of the
process of how to use the Cocoa Topics.
It's a fairly simple, easy-to-use,
but rather low-level,
inter-process communication mechanism.
A more interesting thing about MS Ports
is that they're the foundation of
what's known as distributed objects.
Now what distributed objects allows
you to do is to send method calls to
objects transparently across thread,
process, and machine boundaries.
What do I mean by that?
It means, for example,
you can have safe interthread
communication because you can
send a message that will be
delivered to an object and be
delivered in another thread.
or you can send a method to
an object in another process,
maybe even a process running
on a different machine,
and it will be delivered there.
The fundamental object in distributed
objects is an NS connection,
which runs from one
NS port to another NS port,
and the messages are sent
across the connection.
Now, one thing about NS port is that
in abstraction there are different
subclasses of NS port to refer to
different transport mechanisms.
For example,
there's one subclass that uses
Mach messages for communication
on the local machine.
There's another subclass that uses
TCP/IP for transport from one machine
to another across the network.
And depending on which subclass you
use when you create your connection,
you can get either means of transport.
And when you set up a connection,
one side,
which is going to be the server,
sets one of its objects as the
root object for the connection.
It's vending that out.
The other side, the client,
gets a proxy for that
object with its connection.
And then it can send methods
to the proxy as if it were
sending them to the real object.
The methods are forwarded across
the connection and delivered to that
root object at the receiving end.
and the way the two sides hook
up also depends on what sort of
transport mechanism you're using.
If you're on the local machine,
you can register connections by name.
If you're going over TCP/IP,
you usually rendezvous based on
a TCP port and an IP address.
Now,
there are a number of examples of this
in the documentation on NSConnection.
And exactly how you use it depends
a little on what you're doing.
But let me just give one brief
example of a connection that's used
for inter-thread communication.
So, on one side, the main thread,
what we're doing is
first creating a port,
and then we create a connection
that we'll receive with that port.
We set ourselves, as it happens,
as the root object for that connection.
That means we're vending ourselves out.
We're going to get the messages.
And then we create another thread,
and that other thread is going to
send us messages on this connection.
So we give it the port.
Now, in that other thread,
we use that port to recreate a
connection to send to that port.
and we do whatever calculation
we want to in this thread.
Maybe it takes a long time
to do this calculation.
And then when we're done
with that calculation,
We ask this connection
for the root proxy,
and that gets a proxy
for that root object,
the self on the other side.
And then we just send a method to it,
server report result result.
This normal Objective-C message then,
except that in this case,
it's going to be delivered to
that other object in its thread,
the main thread.
So the result is safe
inter-thread communication.
Okay, and I'd also like to talk
about a few other things in
Foundation that are enabled,
although not immediately directly,
by the runloop mechanism.
So, NSURL in Foundation,
the basic use of NSURL is
to encapsulate a URL.
So you can have the scheme and the path
and all the other components of URL and
analyze those and pass that around.
But another thing you can do with
NSURL is you can do simple fetching of
the contents of URL by default built in
for file colon and HTTP colon schemes.
And this is a rather simple
mechanism and some limitations,
but you can get notified when the
download starts or when various
interesting things happen during it.
There's also a slightly more complicated
mechanism if you want more detailed
control over what's happening in NSURL.
There's an NSURL handle that can give you
somewhat finer control and you can also
subclass this if you want to handle other
schemes that you know how to handle.
Another thing has to
do with Apple events.
It's been mentioned earlier that
Cocoa provides a lot of support
for Apple script for scripting.
But it's also possible to
receive individual Apple events.
It's very simple.
There's a shared NSAppleEventManager,
one object,
and all you do is register a particular
object and method to be called when a
particular Apple event type arrives.
And then you'll be
called with a selector,
be given the Apple event,
and then be given a reply.
And then you fill in the
reply and send it back.
Very
Okay, and finally,
I'd like to talk a little bit
about exceptions in Foundation.
Now, the Objective-C language does not
have a built-in exception mechanism,
but the Foundation provides one.
That is, an exception object,
NSException,
and a means of raising exceptions
and a means of handling them.
and these NS exceptions,
they have a name, a string name that's
used to identify them,
and a reason,
which is some reason that's supposed
to be intelligible to a programmer.
and others.
Now, in your own code,
you can use exceptions however you like,
but as Cocoa uses them,
typically we use them only for
really truly exceptional conditions,
things that can't really be handled,
usually the result of
some programming error.
We don't want you to have
to use exception handling
contexts all over the place,
only in special cases.
And, of course,
they can be handled at multiple levels.
For example, typically the app kit will
catch exceptions occurring in
its main event loop if they are
not caught at some lower level.
If an exception really is not
handled at all at any level,
then there's a default exception
handler that basically just exits
the process or you can install your
own if you want some other behavior.
So how do you raise an exception?
The simplest way is by calling
a class method on NSException
to raise with a name.
You give it the name of
the exception and format,
which is a printf style format string
and arguments to produce the reason,
which is, as I said,
supposed to be intelligible
to a programmer.
And there is a slightly more
complicated way you have to do that.
You can attach essentially arbitrary
user info data to the exception.
So if you want to do that,
you can create the exception
and then go ahead and raise it.
How do you handle an exception?
The way you do it is, first of all,
you start with an NSDuring,
and then comes the block wherein
you try to perform the operation
that might raise an exception,
an NSHandler,
and then comes the exception
handling context where you would be
sent to if an exception was raised,
and then NSHandler ends the block.
Now, once you get into this
exception handling context,
when an exception was raised,
there are four ways you can get out.
One is you can just
fall through to the end,
just keep going as if nothing happened.
Or you can re-raise the
exception that was raised,
just send it on.
Or maybe you have a new exception
you want to raise that covers that.
Or you can exit the method altogether.
And there's an NSValue return
that's used if you're returning
something from the method,
or an NSVoid return if
the method returns void.
and the way that you know what the
exception was that was raised is that
there's a local variable whose context
is this exception handling block,
local exception.
And you can take that and then
save it if you want to use it
later or possibly re-raise it.
and let's see,
the only other thing I wanted to mention
about these exceptions is that in Java,
they're wrapped as, I believe,
a subclass of the runtime exception.
And so next I want to turn the
stage over to Chuck Pisula.
Okay, this is the section of the talk
where basically everyone's on the
same foot because we're talking
about new features which even
experienced people haven't seen before.
So, I'm actually kind of lying a little
bit because some of these new features
are really things that we had before,
hadn't been working for a while,
and they're now back.
So, let's get into these.
First of all, let's talk about XML.
Until now, Cocoa used to store what we
call plists in an ASCII format.
We still store it in an ASCII format,
but that format's defined using XML.
And when we did this,
we also added support for a
number of types that developers
have been asking for for a while.
So we can now do things like array, data,
date, some various other standard
types that you want.
And if you need to do anything
that's not in the standard list,
you can always convert to
an NSString or an NSData.
Cocoa now also has support for
dealing with HFS file types.
Now, we added this support without
modifying any of our API that
uses extension-based parameters.
So, for instance,
if you want to bring up an open
panel and tell it what types
you're allowing it to open,
you can pass in strings which
represent HFS file types.
And, again, we've done this without
modifying the API.
So if you want to
allow the Open Panel to open
some sort of HFS file type.
You'd use one of the functions
like NSHFSFile for type code.
You'd convert the OS type code
to an NSString and pass that
into the extension-based API.
So you can mix extensions
along with HFS file types.
NSWorkspace is back and
mostly functional again.
So there are parts that hadn't
been functioning for a while.
The parts that still aren't
functioning are mostly OS specific.
Those are the few exceptions.
We've also added some new methods.
Methods to open URLs,
check whether or not
something is a file package,
and even methods to check
for local mounted volumes.
We now have support for
custom window shapes.
The things you see like the
clock up there were done
using a custom window shape.
And what you,
the support that's needed to
do this is the ability to first
set the alpha value of a window.
Tell a window that it's opaque,
then what you would do is fill
its content with clear color,
and anywhere you fill it with non-clear
color would then be the window.
So in this example above,
I initially told the window
that it's not opaque,
filled it with clear color,
and then drew using a clock image,
and then of course put
the hands on top of it.
and we've also added support
for you to turn off shadows.
Now,
if you do your own custom window shades,
you're of course going to have to
handle your own window dragging.
We now have small controls.
A number of controls that you're used
to seeing in Cocoa come in both flavors,
buttons and check boxes.
Larger things, even like the tab view,
like the example above,
have normal and small variants.
To choose small controls,
typically you're going to do
it when you lay out your UI.
So in Interface Builder,
you're going to check one box
that says use small control.
But you can also do this programmatically
by sending the set control size
method using the small control size.
Typically,
the set control size message will be
sent actually to the cell of the control.
So those of you who are
familiar with controls know that
controls display using cells.
And so the cell typically will be
the one that receives this message.
and a status bar is back.
It has no new API.
Status items are really pretty simple.
Sort of like the toolbar,
they have many similar attributes.
You can set a target action, a title,
an image.
You can associate a drop-down
menu and they can have tool tips.
And also similar to the toolbar,
you can have your own
custom views up there.
So if you want to install your
own custom sort of status view,
use the set view method.
Typically,
you want to make sure that the status
items are small things and you should
use them sparingly because there might
not be a lot of space to display them.
Currently,
these things are displayed in the menu,
in the top menu of Mac OS X.
Ennis MovieView is back.
Ennis MovieView is a control
in Cocoa that you can use
to play QuickTime movies.
It encapsulates a movie object,
which is the
QuickTime structure for movies.
This movie object is now stored in
an Ennis Movie and can be accessed
from the Ennis Movie object if
you want to do complicated things.
Also, the movie controller is
stored by the Ennis MovieView.
The movie controller is the little
controls at the bottom that allow you
to drag your position in the movie,
press play or pause.
You can access that directly if
you want to do more complex things
than Ennis Movie allows you to do.
As I said, NSMovie now wraps the
QuickTime movie structure.
However, it's not an Objective-C wrapper
for all QuickTime APIs.
So typically, if you need to do something
specific with your movie,
you'll access the movie directly
and use QuickTime calls.
You can initialize the
NSMovie in a number of ways.
either from a QuickTime,
already created QuickTime movie
object by URL or from the pasteboard.
[Transcript missing]
Currently there's no
support for allocating from
a streaming type of source.
If you need to do that,
you should create your QuickTime movie
object using new movie from DataRef
and then hand it off to the NSMovie.
NSOpenGL has a couple new methods,
in particular update and reshape.
These are methods that those familiar
with OpenGL programming know that if,
say, the size of your viewport changes,
you need to update certain
viewing parameters.
This is where you'll do that.
Another note of interest,
if you're doing full
screen OpenGL applications,
In order to prevent the dock or possibly
the application menu from receiving
mouth clicks or other things potentially,
you might need to provide a cover window.
What you would do is make a window
and give it a window level which is
higher than anything else so that
it would intercept the mouse events.
And the window level you want to
give it is KCG overlay window level.
Okay,
the toolbar is a completely new class.
It comes along with a NS Toolbar
item class which is also brand new.
The basic idea here is that the
toolbar represents the NS Toolbar
represents the whole toolbar,
and it takes care of a
number of tasks for you,
like synchronizing toolbars.
If you make a change in one toolbar,
you want it to be reflected in all
other toolbars with the same identifier.
Again, Mail has three different
kinds of toolbars,
so if I change the ordering of
my items in my Compose window,
I want it to be reflected
in any other Compose window
I currently have up immediately.
NS Toolbar also takes care of archiving
the configuration out to disk and making
sure when you create new toolbars,
they come up with that
same configuration.
In addition, NS Toolbar also will run the
customization sheet that you've
seen drop down from Mail and
will control the display of that.
All you need to typically do is provide
those delegate methods that if you're
in the last session you heard about.
Each item in the toolbar is
represented by an NSToolbarItem object.
Again,
this is very similar to status bar items.
They have some standard
attributes like images,
labels, menus that can be associated
when you're in text-only mode.
And they have, again,
target and action because target
and action is typically how
controls communicate in Cocoa.
And again,
if you need to provide your own
kind of item that's not simply
a sort of standard button,
something like the search field in
Mail can be provided as a custom view.
Now we don't, in Cocoa again,
we give you lots for free,
so we also have some standard
items that you can get for free.
A separator toolbar item,
one that will pop up the color panel,
and so forth.
and a stepper is a new class.
It's these small up and down
arrows that you see here.
And
Basically something that you'll use
if you want to have an incrementer.
And you can set things
like a min and max value,
the increment step size,
and whether it wraps or auto repeats.
NS Image has a couple new methods.
And the reason that we have
these new methods is that
existing methods in NS Image
typically did not pay attention,
respect the current transform.
They simply blit the image to the screen.
Now the new methods,
drawAtPoint and drawInRect,
will pay attention to
the current transform.
So if you want to do things
like scale or flip your image,
things like that.
And the additional parameters
that you see are for specifying
the part of the source image that
you want to draw to the screen.
You don't have to use the whole image.
You could just use the whole image,
you know, 0, 0 to width by height.
And then the remaining
parameters are the operation.
You can specify a simple copy type of
compositing operation or a source over,
so on.
And the fractional amount of
the image that you want to draw.
So it can be anywhere from 0 to 1.
1 being fully opaque,
0 being fully transparent.
There are a couple new graphics
features that we have that
provide you finer control over
some of the display operations.
In particular,
you can turn on and off anti-aliasing,
and you can control the
granularity of image interpolation.
And the types of values that you can use
for image interpolation are either none,
low, high, or Cocoa's default.
and this bitmap image rep also has some
new support for using color sync data.
And the particulars of this,
and others.
So, let's go like this.
NSBitmap Image Rep has a dictionary
of sort of arbitrary information
that can be attached to it.
One piece of information that
can now be attached to it is
this color sync information.
And the color sync information is
simply an NSData object and the
key that you use to attach it is
NSImage color sync profile data.
If you look at the NSBitmap
Image Rep documentation,
you'll see that there's this
business about properties that can be
associated with the Bitmap Image Rep.
OK, so we shipped Mac OS X 10.0.
Now we have to worry about
things like versioning.
So this is new in that sense,
but we've always sort of had versioning.
The important thing here is always test
your applications against old versions of
the AppKit and old versions of Mac OS X.
And you may potentially need to
check against what version number
of the Cocoa frameworks you have.
And the value you'll need to check is
this value called NSAppKitVersionNumber.
For 10.0, the version number of
the Cocoa frameworks or
AppKit sometimes we refer to it.
The version number of AppKit was 577.0.
Foundation would have
its own version number.
and in 10.0,
we didn't declare the variable anywhere,
so you're going to have to make
sure you declare it yourself
if you want to reference it.
And it's a double,
so you declare extern double
NSAppKit version number.
And the important thing here is
that when you're checking for,
say, a new bug fix,
we may have said the bug fix
for Super Widget A came out in
the next release of the AppKit.
And you don't want to check
for greater than or equal to,
well, greater than 577 to know
whether or not the fix is there.
Because the next major
release may be 587.
And this bug fix may have come
along somewhere in between,
say, on a software update even.
You want to make sure that you
compare against the specific
number of where that fix is,
because you want it to work
on the in-between releases,
not just...
and others.
The first thing I want to
talk about is the bug fixes.
It's sort of hard to explain,
but there would be a window where if
you're just checking greater than 577,
where the fix is not actually there,
but you thought it was.
So you want to check against
specific version numbers.
For bug fixes or features, in fact,
that can be solely described by
whether or not an object has a method,
through the beauty of Objective-C's
very fast introspection,
you can actually just ask whether or
not the object responds to the method.
If the object responds to the method,
well then the feature's there.
For all these things,
check the release notes and it
should be clear what you need to
use for any particular situation.
Finally,
we have the slide you've seen many times,
documentation.
There's release notes.
You should always look to see, of course,
when those bug fixes were put in,
what potentially what behaviors changed,
overview documentation,
so on and so forth.
and others.
Example code, again,
you've probably seen this many times,
I'm just going to flip through.
The roadmap,
well basically you've missed it
all except the feedback form.
However, you've got the DVDs.
If you haven't seen the
Cocoa Review Talk and
you're new to Cocoa,
you should check that out.
The Using Cocoa Talk,
those of you who weren't here the
previous hour really missed out.
It's full of lots of great demos.
And the feedback form,
so if you have anything to say,
come to that tomorrow.
Finally,
Heather is always your person to contact.
We have a feedback address if
you have comments or suggestions.
And I'd highly recommend subscribing
to Apple's new Cocoa Development List.